basic program terminology?
-Class Declaration: A class is a blue print of an object
-Object: The object is an instance of a class. It is an entity that has behavior and state.
-Main Method: public static void main(String args[]) method is the entry point where the program starts execution.
-Statements: Each line of code inside the method must end with a semicolon(;)

compile and run a code?
-javac Geeks.java:: java compiler(javac) reads the source code(Geeks.java)

-java Geeks:: file name is geeks

Identifiers in Java?
the names of local variables, instance and class variables, and labels, but also the names for classes, packages, modules and methods. All Unicode characters are valid, not just the ASCII subset.
ex: Legal identifiers: MinNumber, total, ak74, hello_world, $amount, \_under_value
Illegal identifiers: 74ak, -amount
Types of identifiers?
class name
method name
variable name
method name
package name
interface name

White spaces in Java?
A line containing only white spaces, possibly with the comment, is known as a blank line, and the Java compiler totally ignores it.

Access Modifiers?
default, public, protected, private.
Non-access Modifiers: final, abstract, static, transient, synchronized, volatile, native.

private - within the class
default - within class, within package
protected - within class, within package, outside package by subclass only
public - within class, within package, outside package with subclass ,outside package

Keywords or Reserved words ?
the words in a language that are used for some internal process or represent some predefined actions. These words are therefore not allowed to use as variable names or objects.
keywords(50) and literals(3)

Keywords:

abstract - Specifies that a class or method will be implemented later, in a subclass
assert - Assert describes a predicate placed in a Java program to indicate that the developer thinks that the predicate is always true at that place.
boolean - A data type that can hold True and False values only
break - A control statement for breaking out of loops.
byte - A data type that can hold 8-bit data values.
case - Used in switch statements to mark blocks of text
catch - Catches exceptions generated by try statements
char - A data type that can hold unsigned 16-bit Unicode characters
class - Declares a new class
continue - Sends control back outside a loop
default - Specifies the default block of code in a switch statement
do - Starts a do-while loop
double - A data type that can hold 64-bit floating-point numbers
else - Indicates alternative branches in an if statement.
enum - A Java keyword is used to declare an enumerated type. Enumerations extend the base class.
extends - Indicates that a class is derived from another class or interface
final - Indicates that a variable holds a constant value or that a method will not be overridden
finally - Indicates a block of code in a try-catch structure that will always be executed
float - A data type that holds a 32-bit floating-point number
for - Used to start a for loop
if - Tests a true/false expression and branches accordingly
implements - Specifies that a class implements an interface.
import - References other classes
instanceof - Indicates whether an object is an instance of a specific class or implements an interface
int - A data type that can hold a 32-bit signed integer
interface - Declares an interface
long - A data type that holds a 64-bit integer
native - Specifies that a method is implemented with native (platform-specific) code
new - Creates new objects
null - This indicates that a reference does not refer to anything
package - Declares a Java package
private - An access specifier indicating that a method or variable may be accessed only in the class it’s declared in
protected - An access specifier indicating that a method or variable may only be accessed in the class it’s declared in (or a subclass of the class it’s declared in or other classes in the same package)
public - An access specifier used for classes, interfaces, methods, and variables indicating that an item is accessible throughout the application (or where the class that defines it is accessible)
return - Sends control and possibly a return value back from a called method
short - A data type that can hold a 16-bit integer
static - Indicates that a variable or method is a class method (rather than being limited to one particular object)
strictfp - A Java keyword is used to restrict the precision and rounding of floating-point calculations to ensure portability.
super - Refers to a class’s base class (used in a method or class constructor)
switch - A statement that executes code based on a test value
synchronized - Specifies critical sections or methods in multithreaded code
this - Refers to the current object in a method or constructor
throw - Creates an exception
throws - Indicates what exceptions may be thrown by a method
transient - Specifies that a variable is not part of an object’s persistent state
try - Starts a block of code that will be tested for exceptions
void - Specifies that a method does not have a return value
volatile - This indicates that a variable may change asynchronously
while - Starts a while loop
sealed - The sealed keyword is used to declare a class as “sealed,” meaning it restricts which classes can extend it.
permits - The permits keyword is used within a sealed class declaration to specify the subclasses that are permitted to extend it.

Data Types?
different sizes and values that can be stored in the variable that is made as per convenience and circumstances to cover up all test cases.

Datatypes types?
-Primitive Data Type: such as boolean, char, int, short, byte, long, float, and double. The Boolean with uppercase B is a wrapper class for the primitive data type boolean in Java.
-Non-Primitive Data Type or Object Data type: such as String, Array, etc.

primitive data type
-numeric Datatypes
-non-numeric data type

numeric datatype
-integer type - short,int,long,byte
-floating type - float,double

non-numeric datatype
-boolean
-char

non-primitive datatype
-String
-Array

sizes
-8 BITS -boolean,byte
-16 BITS- Char,short
-32 BITS- int, float
-64 bITS- Long,double

string and character array diff?
string is designed to hold a sequence of characters in a single variable
character array is a collection of separate char-type entities

class?
user-defined
blueprint or prototype from which objects
represents the set of properties or methods that are common to all objects

Superclass?
name of the class’s parent (superclass), if any, preceded by the keyword extends. A class can only extend (subclass) one parent.

object?
basic unit of Object-Oriented Programming
real-life entities

Interface?
Interfaces specify what a class must do and not how. It is the blueprint of the class.
class implements an interface and does not provide method bodies for all functions specified in the interface,

Array?
like-typed variables that are referred to by a common name.
all arrays are dynamically allocated.
arrays are objects in Java
each has an index beginning with 0.
static field, a local variable, or a method parameter
size of an array must be specified by an int value and not long or short.

Char uses 2 bytes in java because it uses the Unicode system rather than the ASCII system. “\u000” is the lowest range of the Unicode system.
