used in?
Used to develop mobile apps, desktop apps, web apps, web servers, games, and enterprise-level systems.

Invented by?
invented by James Gosling and Oracle currently owns it.

Key features?
-Platform Independent - Compiler converts source code to byte code and then the JVM executes the bytecode generated by the compiler. This byte code can run on any platform be it Windows, Linux, or macOS which means if we compile a program on Windowbut the output produced by all the OS is the same after the execution of the byte code. That is why we call java a platform-independent language.s,
-Object-Oriented Programming - romoting the use of objects and classes.
-Simplicity -It eliminates complex features like pointers and multiple inheritances, making it easier to write, debug, and maintain code.
-Robustness -Java language is robust which means reliable.
-Security - we don’t have pointers, so we cannot access out-of-bound arrays i.e it shows ArrayIndexOutOfBound Exception if we try to do so. That’s why several security flaws like stack corruption or buffer overflow are impossible to exploit in Java.
-Multithreading - enabling the concurrent execution of multiple parts of a program. This feature is particularly useful for applications that require high performance,
-Distributed - . WORA(Write Once Run Anywhere) makes java application to generates a ‘.class’ file that corresponds to our applications(program) but contains code in binary format.
-High Performance

java execution?
Creating the Program
Compiling the Program
Running the Program

terminologies?
-Java Virtual Machine(JVM):
Writing a program is done by a java programmer
The compilation is done by the JAVAC compiler which is a primary Java compiler included in the Java development kit (JDK). It takes the Java program as input and generates bytecode as output.
The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is designed to run the bytecode generated by the Java compiler.

-Bytecode:
Bytecode is the intermediate representation of Java code, generated by the Java compiler. It is platform-independent and can be executed by the JVM.

-Java Development Kit(JDK):
omplete Java development kit that includes everything including compiler, Java Runtime Environment (JRE), Java Debuggers, Java Docs, etc. For the program to execute in java,

-Java Runtime Environment (JRE):
we cannot compile it. JRE includes a browser, JVM, applet support, and plugins. For running the java program, a computer needs JRE.

-Garbage Collector:
rogrammers can’t delete the objects. To delete or recollect that memory JVM has a program called Garbage Collector. Garbage Collectors can recollect the objects that are not referenced. So Java makes the life of a programmer easy by handling memory management.

-ClassPath:
The Classpath is the file path where the java runtime and Java compiler look for .class files to load. By default

Advantage:
Platform independent:
Object-Oriented:
Security:
Large community:
Enterprise-level applications:

disadvantage
Performance:
Memory management:
